Threat Group Assessment: Muddled Libra (Updated May 16, 2025)
Menu
Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
English
English
Spanish (LATAM)
French
Japanese
Threat Research Center
Threat Actor Groups
Malware
Malware
Threat Group Assessment: Muddled Libra (Updated May 16, 2025)
15
min read
Related Products
Advanced DNS Security
Advanced URL Filtering
App-ID
Cloud-Delivered Security Services
Cortex XDR
Cortex XSIAM
Cortex XSOAR
Next-Generation Firewall
Unit 42 Incident Response
By:
Amer Elsad
Kristopher Russo
Austin Dever
Published:
May 16, 2025
Categories:
High Profile Threats
Malware
Threat Actor Groups
Tags:
0ktapus
ALPHV
App-ID
BlackCat ransomware
MITRE
Muddled Libra
Phishing
Scatter Swine
Scattered Spider
Social engineering
Share
Executive Summary
Update May 16, 2025:
We’ve added an additional section to this article that describes the evolution of Muddled Libra activity since the beginning for 2024. This group is a dynamic one, and as members cycle in and out of the group, its knowledgebase and skill set naturally shift. Its toolbox has now expanded to include:
Social engineering of both end users and helpdesks
Traditional phishing
Inside access to business process outsourcers
Ransomware affiliations for extortion
Muddled Libra stands at the intersection of devious social engineering and nimble technology adaptation. With an intimate knowledge of enterprise information technology, this threat group presents a significant risk even to organizations with well-developed legacy cyber defenses.
Muddled Libra’s tactics can be fluid, adapting quickly to a target environment. They continue to use social engineering as their primary modus operandi, targeting a company's IT help support desk. For example, in under a few minutes, these threat actors successfully changed an account password and later reset the victim’s MFA to gain access to their networks.
Muddled Libra was first noted for targeting organizations in the software automation, outsourcing and telecommunications verticals. Since then, they’ve expanded their targeting to include the technology, business process outsourcing, hospitality and more recently, financial industries. They show no signs of slowing.
Unit 42 researchers and responders have investigated interrelated incidents from mid-2022 through the beginning of 2024, which we’ve attributed to the threat group Muddled Libra. Initial attacks were highly structured and favored large business process outsourcing firms serving high-value cryptocurrency holders. We believe that when the threat actors exhausted those targets, they evolved into a ransomware affiliate model with extortion as their key objective.
In the cases we’ve been involved with, we observed Muddled Libra performing the following activities:
Using NSOCKS and TrueSocks proxy services
Creating email rules to forward emails from specific security vendors to the actors to monitor communications and those helping in the investigation
Deploying a custom virtual machine into the environment
Using an open-source rootkit, bedevil (
bdvl
) to target VMware vCenter servers
Gaining administrative permissions
Heavy use of anonymizing proxy services
We also believe that members of Muddled Libra speak English as a first language, which provides them greater ability to conduct their social engineering attacks with other English speakers. Muddled Libra has also been observed using AI to spoof victims’ voices. Social media videos can be used by attackers to train AI models. The targets we’ve observed seem to be primarily in the U.S.
Thwarting Muddled Libra requires interweaving tight security controls, diligent awareness training and vigilant monitoring.
Palo Alto Networks customers are better protected from the threats described in this article through a modern security architecture built around
Cortex XSIAM
in concert with
Cortex XDR
. The
Advanced URL Filtering
and
DNS Security
Cloud-Delivered Security Services
can help protect against command and control (C2) infrastructure, while
App-ID
can limit anonymization services allowed to connect to the network.
Related Unit 42 Topics
Muddled Libra
(related to
Scattered Spider
,
Scatter Swine
),
0ktapus
,
Social Engineering
Update May 16, 2025
After a lull in late 2024, Muddled Libra resumed activity. Unit 42 has responded to multiple high-profile attacks, while observing even more attributed to Muddled Libra's parent group, Scattered Spider. Notably, these attacks expand on trade craft pioneered by Muddled Libra.
Muddled Libra is a subset of a loosely affiliated threat collective known as Scattered Spider, Octo Tempest, Oktapus and other names. Scattered Spider’s resilience lies in the breadth and diversity of its members.
This group evolved in the Discord and Telegram communication platforms, drawing in members from diverse backgrounds and interests. Attackers in this group specialize in specific skill sets and work together to hone those skills to eventually sell or use in cyberattacks. Channels used by members range from crime-oriented groups like one they call The COM, to enthusiast collectives for popular online games.
Muddled Libra's core members originally specialized in SIM-swapping, smishing and insider knowledge of IT systems management software. As members cycle in and out of the group, it gains new skills and sunsets less effective ones. The group's toolbox has expanded to include social engineering of both end users and helpdesks, traditional phishing, inside access to business process outsourcers and ransomware affiliations.
The loose-knit and fluid nature of this group makes it inherently difficult to disrupt. Muddled Libra (
see
Unit 42’s Threat Assessment
and
research on attacks against CSPs
) has seen several key members arrested over the past year. However, others with new skills and inside knowledge of new industries have quickly moved in to take their place, and still others have formed entirely new threat clusters.
Unit 42 has observed new offshoots with unique objectives forming to expand into previously untouched industries. These new groups are using a mix of well worn and novel techniques. Heavily targeted industries include retail and hospitality. However, favored industries and organizations can shift on a whim, and defenders in every vertical should bolster their cyber defenses against these attacks.
Initial access has shifted away from smishing to social engineering. Threat actors direct social engineering attacks at helpdesks by posing as employees who have forgotten their passwords or at employees directly, with attackers claiming to be from the corporate helpdesk.
Once inside the environment, attackers have leveraged free or compromised legitimate remote management tools to access customer relationship management (CRM) platforms for sensitive data exfiltration. Muddled Libra attacks have also featured virtual environment administration tools for maximum disruption. This group has a new affiliation with the ransomware-as-a-service group DragonForce for extortion.
Threat Overview
The attack style defining Muddled Libra appeared on the cybersecurity radar in late 2022 with the release of the 0ktapus phishing kit. This malware kit offered the following features:
A prebuilt hosting framework
Easy C2 connectivity
Bundled attack templates
These options allowed attackers to emulate mobile authentication pages cheaply and easily.
With over 200 realistic fake authentication portals and some targeted
smishing
, attackers quickly gathered credentials and multifactor authentication (MFA) codes for over one hundred organizations.
The speed and breadth of these attacks caught many defenders off-guard. While smishing is not a new tactic, the 0ktapus framework commoditized what would typically require complex infrastructure and advanced technical skills, in a way that granted even low-skilled attackers a high attack success rate.
The sheer number of targets being hit with this kit created a fair amount of confusion regarding attribution in the research community. Previous reporting by
Group-IB
,
CrowdStrike
and
Okta
has documented and mapped many of these attacks to the following intrusion groups: 0ktapus, Scattered Spider and Scatter Swine.
While these have been frequently treated as several names for one group, what these names actually define are:
An attack style using a common toolkit
A social forum-based collaboration network
An Agile-like team structure
Muddled Libra is a distinct group of actors using this tradecraft. In a 2023 blog posted on ALPHV’s leak site, the attackers corroborated this view, claiming that previous researcher attribution models have been non-specific.
During Unit 42 Incident Response investigations, we identified several cases we attribute to Muddled Libra. Muddled Libra has been responsible for a campaign of complex supply chain attacks, ultimately leading to high-value cryptocurrency targets.
This group has only intensified their campaign. They are shifting tactics to adapt to improving cyber defenses, and they are targeting to broaden their attack scope.
Figure 1. Muddled Libra evolved tactics.
Unit 42 has observed an extensive toolkit used in these attacks. This arsenal ranges from hands-on social engineering and smishing attacks to proficiency with niche penetration testing, forensics tools and even legitimate systems management software. This breadth of tooling gives Muddled Libra an edge over even a robust and modern cyber defense plan.
In incidents the Unit 42 team has investigated, Muddled Libra has been methodical in pursuing its goals and highly flexible with attack strategies. When an attack tactic is blocked, they have either rapidly pivoted to another vector or modified the target environment to enable their favored path.
Muddled Libra has also repeatedly demonstrated a strong understanding of the modern incident response (IR) framework. This knowledge allows them to continue progressing toward their goals even as incident responders attempt to expel them from an environment. Once established, this threat group is difficult to eradicate. Unit 42 has observed them joining IR war rooms and creating rules within email security platforms to intercept and redirect incident response-related communication.
Initially, Muddled Libra preferred targeting a victim’s downstream customers using stolen data and, if allowed, would return repeatedly to the well to refresh their stolen dataset. Using this stolen data, the threat actor could return to prior victims even after the initial incident response.
Furthermore, Muddled Libra appeared to have clear goals for its breaches versus just capitalizing on opportunistic access. They rapidly sought and stole information on downstream client environments and then used it to pivot into those environments.
In a notable departure from earlier tactics, in 2023, intelligence indicated that Muddled Libra joined the ALPHV/Blackcat ransomware-as-a-service affiliate program. They wasted no time implementing this new tool set with a radical departure from previous tradecraft in favor of new attacks focused on data theft, encryption and enormous extortion demands.
The U.S. Justice Department interrupted ALPHV’s operations shortly after these attacks began. Since this action, new Muddled Libra attacks have shifted to data theft with a simple extortion objective. Muddled Libra has demonstrated a strong understanding of their victims’ “line of business” processes, and they strike at the heart of business operations.
Attack Chain
While each incident is unique, Unit 42 researchers have identified enough commonalities in tradecraft to attribute multiple incidents to Muddled Libra. Figure 1 shows the attack chain.
Figure 2. Muddled Libra attack chain.
We have mapped these to the MITRE ATT&CK
®
framework, summarized below.
Reconnaissance
Muddled Libra has consistently demonstrated an intimate knowledge of targeted organizations, including employee lists, job roles and cellular phone numbers. In some instances, threat actors likely obtained this data during earlier breaches against upstream targets.
Threat actors also frequently obtain information packs from illicit data brokers such as the
now-defunct Genesis and Russian Markets
. This data is
typically harvested from
corporate and personal infected devices using malware such as Raccoon Stealer and
RedLine Stealer
.
With the early advent of bring-your-own-device (BYOD) policies and the popularity of hybrid work solutions, corporate data and credentials are frequently used and cached on personal devices. Decentralizing the management and protection of IT assets creates a lucrative targeting opportunity for information-stealing malware.
Resource Development
Lookalike domains used in smishing attacks are a consistent hallmark for Muddled Libra. This tactic is effective since mobile devices frequently truncate links in SMS messages. Malicious domain names frequently use the format of the organization name with a hyphen, followed by a service (like SSO, helpdesk or HR).
Early clusters of attacks attributed to the 0ktapus campaign consistently used domains registered via Porkbun or Namecheap and hosted on Digital Ocean infrastructure. These domains are short-lived, used only during the initial access phase, and they are quickly taken down before defenders can investigate. Recently, we’ve observed Muddled Libra adding Metaregistrar and Hosting Concepts to their preferred registrar list, and their hosting has moved behind a large content delivery network (CDN) service.
In many investigations, Unit 42 observed the use of the 0ktapus phishing kit for credential harvesting. Group-IB has done a great deep dive analysis of this versatile kit, which is widely available in the criminal underground. It requires little skill to stand up and configure, making it an ideal tool for highly targeted smishing attacks. Since its introduction, other threat groups have adopted this kit, and it continues to evolve.
Initial Access
In all incidents where Unit 42 could determine an initial access vector, smishing and helpdesk social engineering were involved. In most early incidents, the threat actor sent a lure message directly to the targeted employees’ cellphones, claiming they needed to update account information or reauthenticate to a corporate application. Messages contained a link to a spoofed corporate domain designed to emulate a familiar login page.
Likely due to organizations’ large-scale phase-out of SMS as a secondary authentication factor, Muddled Libra has begun to move away from smishing as an initial entry vector. New cases indicate that this group pervasively uses direct social engineering.
Helpdesk and customer service agents are particularly high-value targets. Unit 42 has observed Muddled Libra using a combination of open-source intelligence and previously compromised sensitive data to get help desk agents to reset both passwords and MFA on the same call.
These attacks are convincing and persistent. They focus on wearing the agent’s defenses down, running up the call length and ultimately bypassing security restrictions that could have prevented these attacks.
Persistence
Muddled Libra was particularly focused on maintaining access to targeted environments. While threat actors commonly use a free or demo version of a remote monitoring and management (RMM) tool during intrusions, Muddled Libra often installed half a dozen or more of these utilities. They did this to ensure they would maintain a backdoor into the environment even if one were discovered.
Using commercial RMM tools is particularly problematic as these tools are legitimate, business-critical applications that Muddled Libra abuses. None of these tools are inherently malicious and they are frequently used in the day-to-day administration of many enterprise networks. Defenders should weigh the risks of an outright block versus carefully monitoring their use.
Observed tools included Zoho Assist, AnyDesk, Splashtop, TeamViewer, ITarian, FleetDeck, ASG Remote Desktop, RustDesk and ManageEngine RMM. Unit 42 recommends organizations block by signer any RMM tools that they have not sanctioned for use within the enterprise.
Muddled Libra has also demonstrated familiarity with cloud platforms, both hosted and software as a service (SaaS). They will use these platforms to establish a foothold within the organization, as these resources are unlikely to be monitored like traditional assets and systems.
Unit 42 has a
separate article
with much more detail on cloud targeting.
Notably, recent attacks indicate that long-term persistence is no longer this group’s primary objective. Instead, they’ve moved to a more traditional “encrypt and extort” model. Targeting has broadened to include large organizations more likely to have the capability to pay large ransoms. Once this group learns and understands the infrastructure and software used in an industry, they tend to target other organizations in the same vertical.
Defense Evasion
Demonstrating proficiency with many security controls, Muddled Libra evaded common defenses.
Their tactics have included the following:
Disabling antivirus and host-based firewalls
Attempting to delete firewall profiles
Creating defender exclusions
Deactivating or uninstalling EDR and other monitoring products
Standing up unmanaged cloud virtual machines
Elevating access in virtual desktop environments
Attackers also re-enabled and used existing Active Directory accounts to avoid triggering common security information and event management (SIEM) monitoring rules. We also observed them operating within endpoint detection and response (EDR) administrative consoles to clear alerts.
We cover this attack in detail in
our article
.
Muddled Libra has been careful with operational security, consistently using commercial virtual private network (VPN) services to obscure their geographic location and attempt to blend in with legitimate traffic. The group preferred Mullvad VPNin early incidents Unit 42 researchers investigated, but we also observed multiple other vendors, such as ExpressVPN, NordVPN, Ultrasurf, Easy VPN and ZenMate.
Unit 42 researchers have more recently observed the usage of rotating residential proxy services as well. As reported by
Brian Krebs in 2021
, residential proxy services typically hide their code inside browser extensions, allowing operators to lease out residential connections for legitimate and malicious use alike.
Defenders should look for multiple users authenticating from new residential IPs over short periods.
Credential Access
Once attackers captured the credentials they would use for initial access, the attacker took one of two paths. In one case, they continued with the authentication process from a machine they controlled and immediately requested a MFA code. In the other cases, they generated an endless string of MFA prompts until the user accepted one out of fatigue or frustration (aka MFA bombing).
In cases where MFA bombing was unsuccessful, the threat actor contacted the organization’s help desk, claiming to be the victim. They would then state that their phone was inoperable or misplaced and would request to enroll a new, attacker-controlled MFA authentication device.
Muddled Libra’s social engineering success is notable. Across many cases, the group demonstrated unusually high comfort in engaging the help desk and other employees over the phone, convincing them to engage in unsafe actions.
If targeted accounts do not have the desired access, Muddled Libra will use the account for discovery and repeat the process until they have the access necessary for their attack.
After establishing a foothold, Muddled Libra moves quickly to elevate access. Standard credential-stealing tools employed in this phase included Mimikatz, ProcDump, DCSync, Raccoon Stealer and LAPS Toolkit. When the group could not quickly locate elevated credentials, they turned to Impacket, MIT Kerberos Ticket Manager and NTLM Encoder/Decoder.
In some incidents, Muddled Libra employed specialized tools to search memory contents for credentials directly using MAGNET RAM Capture and Volatility. As these are legitimate forensics tools that Muddled Libra is abusing, defenders should carefully consider the downsides to blocking them, including the possibility of security team activity generating false positive alerts.
This tactic raises an important flag for defenders. Even though user accounts might be protected through privileged access management, endpoints often have elevated credentials cached for system management or to run services. Care should be taken to ensure that privileged credentials only have the permissions necessary to perform their intended functions and are closely monitored for deviations from normal behavior.
Discovery
Muddled Libra’s discovery methods were consistent from case to case. In our investigations, the group used well-known, legitimate penetration testing tools to map the environment and identify targets of interest. Their toolkit included SharpHound, ADRecon, AD Explorer, Angry IP Scanner, Angry Port Scanner and CIMplant.
Muddled Libra also proved proficient with commercial systems administration tools such as ManageEngine, LANDESK and PDQ Inventory for discovery and automation. They also used VMware PowerCLI and RVTools in virtual environments.
Defenders should be vigilant in identifying unsanctioned network scanning and unusual rapid access to multiple systems or access that crosses logical business segments.
Execution
In early incidents, Muddled Libra appeared primarily interested in data and credential theft, and we infrequently saw remote execution. However, more recent cases included a BlackCat ransomware component. When needed, the group accomplishes execution with Sysinternals PsExec or Impacket. We also observed Muddled Libra using the victim’s system management tools to execute malicious code. They used captured credentials or authentication hashes for privilege elevation.
Lateral Movement
Muddled Libra preferred using remote desktop protocol (RDP) connections from compromised computers for lateral movement inside the target environment. This approach helps to minimize discoverable external network artifacts in logs that could alert defenders and help investigators with attribution.
Collection
Muddled Libra is familiar with typical enterprise data management. They’ve successfully located sensitive organizational data in a wide range of common data repositories, both structured and unstructured, including the following:
Confluence
Code Management Platforms
Elastic
Microsoft Office 365 suite (e.g., SharePoint, Outlook)
Internal messaging platforms
They also targeted data in the victim’s environment from typical service desk applications like Zendesk and Jira. Mined data included credentials for further compromise and they directly targeted sensitive and confidential information.
Unit 42 researchers observed Muddled Libra using the open-source data mining tool Snaffler and native tools to search registries, local drives and network shares for keywords like
*password*
, and
securestring
. Threat actors then staged compromised data and archived it for exfiltration using WinRAR or PeaZip. They used stolen sensitive data as leverage in extortion demands.
Defenders should regularly perform keyword searches in their environments to identify improperly stored data and credentials as part of a broader data management and classification strategy.
Exfiltration
In several cases, Muddled Libra attempted to establish reverse proxy shells or secure shell (SSH) tunnels for command and control exfiltration. We observed them using tunneling software such as RSocx. Muddled Libra also used common file transfer sites such as
put[.]io
,
transfer[.]sh
,
wasabi[.]com
, or
gofile[.]io
to both exfiltrate data and pull down attack tools. We also observed the use of Cyberduck as a file transfer agent.
Threat actors often abuse, take advantage of or subvert legitimate products such as Cyberduck for malicious purposes. This does not necessarily imply a flaw or malicious quality to the legitimate product being abused.
Impact
The early impact directly observed by Unit 42 was some combination of the theft of sensitive data and Muddled Libra leveraging trusted organizational infrastructure for follow-on attacks on downstream customers.
Later attacks were much more destructive, and they included the following activities:
Disruption of operations
Damage to sensitive systems
Encryption of critical data
Enormous extortion demands
Conclusion and Mitigations
Muddled Libra is a methodical adversary that substantially threatens enterprise organizations across many industries. They are proficient in a range of security disciplines, able to thrive in relatively secure environments and execute rapidly to complete devastating attack chains.
Muddled Libra doesn’t bring anything new to the table except for the uncanny knack of stringing together weaknesses to disastrous effect. Defenders must combine cutting-edge technology, comprehensive security hygiene and external threats and internal events monitoring. The high-stakes risk of operational disruption and loss of sensitive data is a strong incentive for modernizing information security programs.
In addition to the mitigation recommendations included in the Attack Chain subsections above, we recommend organizations:
Implement MFA and single sign-on (SSO) wherever possible – preferably Fast Identity Online (FIDO). In the cases we investigated, Muddled Libra was most successful when they convinced employees to help them bypass MFA. When they could not quickly establish a foothold, they appeared to move on to other targets.
Defenders should consider implementing security alerting and account lockout on repeated MFA failures.
Implement comprehensive user awareness training. Muddled Libra is heavily focused on social engineering help desk and other employees via phone and SMS. Employee training on identifying suspicious non-email-based outreach is critical.
In case of a breach, assume this threat actor knows the modern IR playbook. Consider setting up out-of-band response mechanisms.
Ensure credential hygiene is up to date. Only grant access when and for as long as necessary.
Monitoring and managing access to critical defenses and controls is essential to defending against skilled attackers. Rights should be restricted to only what is necessary for each job function. Identity threat detection and response (ITDR) tools such as
Cortex XDR
and
Cortex XSIAM
should be used to monitor for abnormal behavior.
Defenders should limit anonymization services allowed to connect to the network, ideally at the firewall by
App-ID
.
To defend against the threats described in this blog, Palo Alto Networks further recommends that organizations employ the following capabilities:
Network security: delivered through a Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW) configured with machine learning enabled and best-in-class, cloud-delivered security services. This includes, for example, threat prevention, URL filtering, DNS security and a malware prevention engine capable of identifying and blocking malicious samples and infrastructure.
Endpoint security: delivered through an XDR solution that can identify malicious code through advanced machine learning and behavioral analytics. This solution should be configured to act on and block threats in real-time as they are identified.
Security automation: delivered through an XSOAR or XSIAM solution capable of providing SOC analysts with a comprehensive understanding of the threat derived by stitching together data from endpoints, network, cloud and identity systems.
If you think you might have been compromised or have an urgent matter, get in touch with the
Unit 42 Incident Response team
or call:
North America Toll-Free: 866.486.4842 (866.4.UNIT42)
EMEA: +31.20.299.3130
APAC: +65.6983.8730
Japan: +81.50.1790.0200
Indicators of Compromise
IPs observed during this activity:
104.247.82[.]11
105.101.56[.]49
105.158.12[.]236
134.209.48[.]68
137.220.61[.]53
138.68.27[.]0
146.190.44[.]66
149.28.125[.]96
157.245.4[.]113
159.223.208[.]47
159.223.238[.]0
162.19.135[.]215
164.92.234[.]104
165.22.201[.]77
167.99.221[.]10
172.96.11[.]245
185.56.80[.]28
188.166.92[.]55
193.149.129[.]177
207.148.0[.]54
213.226.123[.]104
35.175.153[.]217
45.156.85[.]140
45.32.221[.]250
64.227.30[.]114
79.137.196[.]160
92.99.114[.]231
Additional Resources
Muddled Libra Discussion With Unit 42 Senior Consultant Stephanie Regan
– Threat Vector Podcast, Unit 42 on CyberWire Daily
Exposing Muddled Libra's Meticulous Tactics With Unit 42 Senior Researcher Kristopher Russo
– Threat Vector Podcast, Unit 42 on CyberWire Daily
Muddled Libra's Evolution to the Cloud
– Unit 42, Palo Alto Networks
Roasting 0ktapus: The phishing campaign going after Okta identity credentials
– Group-IB
Not a SIMulation: CrowdStrike Investigations Reveal Intrusion Campaign Targeting Telco and BPO Companies
– CrowdStrike
Detecting Scatter Swine: Insights into a Relentless Phishing Campaign
– Okta
I Solemnly Swear My Driver Is Up to No Good: Hunting for Attestation Signed Malware
– Mandiant
Is Your Browser Extension a Botnet Backdoor?
– Krebs on Security
Suspicion stalks Genesis Market’s competitors following FBI takedown
– The Record, Recorded Future News
Updated May 16, at 10:12 a.m. PT to include
the evolution of Muddled Libra activity since the beginning for 2024.
Back to top
Tags
0ktapus
ALPHV
App-ID
BlackCat ransomware
MITRE
Muddled Libra
Phishing
Scatter Swine
Scattered Spider
Social engineering
Threat Research Center
Next: DarkCloud Stealer: Comprehensive Analysis of a New Attack Chain That Employs AutoIt
Table of Contents
Related Articles
Russian Global Webmail Espionage
Phantom Squatting: AI-Hallucinated Domains as a Software Supply Chain Vector
When “Hi, This Is IT” Comes Through Microsoft Teams
Related Malware Resources
High Profile Threats
July 15, 2026
The npm Threat Landscape: Attack Surface and Mitigations (Updated July 15)
Credential Harvesting
GitHub
Npm packages
Read now
Threat Research
July 15, 2026
TuxBot v3: Inside an IoT Botnet Framework With LLM-Assisted Development
C2
DGA
Docker compose
Read now
Threat Research
July 7, 2026
Vidar Stealer Unmasked: Code Signing Abuse, Go Loaders and File Inflation
AMSI
Cryptocurrency
DLL Sideloading
Read now
Threat Research
June 30, 2026
Phantom Squatting: AI-Hallucinated Domains as a Software Supply Chain Vector
Agentic AI
LLMs
Malicious Domains
Read now
Threat Research
June 25, 2026
CL-STA-1062 Targets Southeast Asian Governments and Critical Infrastructure
Backdoor
CL-STA-1062
Malware
Read now
Threat Research
June 23, 2026
OpenClaw’s Skill Marketplace and the Emerging AI Supply Chain Threat
Agentic AI
ClawHavoc
ClawHub
Read now
Threat Research
June 11, 2026
Trust No Skill: Integrity Verification for AI Agent Supply Chains
AI agents
Credential exfiltration
LLMs
Read now
Threat Research
June 2, 2026
Operation FlutterBridge: macOS Malvertising Campaign Spreads New FlutterShell Backdoor
CL-CRI-1089
MacOS
Malvertising
Read now
Threat Actor Groups
May 22, 2026
Tracking Iranian APT Screening Serpens’ 2026 Espionage Campaigns
Advanced Persistent Threat
AppDomainManager
DLL Sideloading
Read now
Threat Research
May 20, 2026
Tracking TamperedChef Clusters via Certificate and Code Reuse
Adware
Appsuite PDF
Certificates
Read now
Get updates from Unit 42
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.
Your Email
Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge our
Privacy Statement.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
Privacy Policy
and
Terms of Service
apply.
Invalid captcha!
Subscribe
Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts
Enter your email now to subscribe!
Sign up
By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement
and
Terms of Use.
Sign up
Products and Services
AI-Powered Network Security Platform
Secure AI by Design
Prisma AIRS
AI Access Security
Cloud Delivered Security Services
Advanced Threat Prevention
Advanced URL Filtering
Advanced WildFire
Advanced DNS Security
Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
Enterprise IoT Security
Medical IoT Security
Industrial OT Security
SaaS Security
Next-Generation Firewalls
Hardware Firewalls
Software Firewalls
Strata Cloud Manager
SD-WAN for NGFW
PAN-OS
Panorama
Secure Access Service Edge
Prisma SASE
Application Acceleration
Autonomous Digital Experience Management
Enterprise DLP
Prisma Access
Prisma Browser
Prisma SD-WAN
Remote Browser Isolation
SaaS Security
AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
Cloud Security
Cortex Cloud
Application Security
Cloud Posture Security
Cloud Runtime Security
Prisma Cloud
AI-Driven SOC
Cortex XSIAM
Cortex XDR
Cortex XSOAR
Cortex Xpanse
Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
Managed XSIAM
Next-Generation Identity Security
Privileged Access Management
Identity and Access Management
Endpoint Privilege Manager
Identity Governance
Workforce Password Management
Agentic Identities
Secrets Management
Unified Secrets Governance
Application Credentials Delivery
Vendor Privileged Access
Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
Proactive Assessments
Incident Response
Transform Your Security Strategy
Discover Threat Intelligence
Company
About Us
Careers
Contact Us
Corporate Responsibility
Customers
Investor Relations
Location
Newsroom
Popular Links
Blog
Communities
Content Library
Cyberpedia
Event Center
Manage Email Preferences
Products A-Z
Product Certifications
Report a Vulnerability
Sitemap
Tech Docs
Unit 42
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Privacy
Trust Center
Terms of Use
Documents
Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved
EN
Select your language
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Default Heading
Read the article
Seekbar
Volume
